                                       gb2
Function

   Calculate strand bias of bacterial genome using B2 index

Description

   This method calculate strand bias of bacterial genome using B2 index,
   proposed by Lobry and Sueoka in Reference 1. Basic idea of B2 index is 
   to calculate the distance from neutral parity state (0.5, 0.5), when the bias of
   the coding regions is plotted in a coordinate system with axes representing 
   G/(G+C) and A/(A+T), using the third codon position of genes. This index measures 
   the degree of transcription- and translation-associated effects of bias from 
   Chargaff's second parity rule.

 
   G-language SOAP service is provided by the
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University.
   The original web service is located at the following URL:

   http://www.g-language.org/wiki/soap

   WSDL(RPC/Encoded) file is located at:

   http://soap.g-language.org/g-language.wsdl

   Documentation on G-language Genome Analysis Environment methods are
   provided at the Document Center

   http://ws.g-language.org/gdoc/

Usage

   Here is a sample session with gb2

% gb2 -show refseqn:NC_000913
Calculate strand bias of bacterial genome using B2 index
Output filename [nc_000913.gb2]:
Sequence: NC_000913 B1: 0.0920067301798418

Command line arguments

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers:
  [-sequence]          seqall     Nucleotide sequence(s) filename and optional
                                  format, or reference (input USA)
   -outfile            outfile    [*.gb2] Output file name

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers:
   -accid              string     Include to use sequence accession ID as
                                  query (Any string)
   -show               toggle     [N] Include to dump result to stdout

   General qualifiers:
   -help               boolean    Report command line options and exit. More
                                  information on associated and general
                                  qualifiers can be found with -help -verbose

Input file format

   gb2 reads nucleotide sequences.

Output file format

   The output from gb2 is to a file or stdout.

Data files

   None.

Notes

   None.

References

   Lobry JR and Sueoka N (2002) "Asymmetric directional mutation pressures in bacteria",
      Genome Biology, 3(10):0058

   Arakawa, K., Mori, K., Ikeda, K., Matsuzaki, T., Konayashi, Y., and
      Tomita, M. (2003) G-language Genome Analysis Environment: A Workbench
      for Nucleotide Sequence Data Mining, Bioinformatics, 19, 305-306.

   Arakawa, K. and Tomita, M. (2006) G-language System as a Platfor for
      large-scale analysis of high-throughput omics data, J. Pest Sci.,
      31, 7.

   Arakawa, K., Kido, N., Oshita, K., Tomita, M. (2010) G-language Genome
      Analysis Environment with REST and SOAP Wev Service Interfaces,
      Nucleic Acids Res., 38, W700-W705.

Warnings

   This tool may give a warning on feature output when installed on
   EMBOSS-6.5.7, but we have no known errors in analysis.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with a status of 0.

Known bugs

   None.

See also

   gb1           Calculate strand bias of bacterial genome using B1 index
   gdelta_gcskew Calculate strand bias of bacterial genome using delta GC skew
                 index
   ggcsi         GC Skew Index: an index for strand-specefic mutational bias
   glda_bias     Calculate strand bias of bacterial genome using linear
                 discriminant analysis (LDA)

Author(s)

   Hidetoshi Itaya (celery@g-language.org)
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University
   252-8520 Japan

   Kazuharu Arakawa (gaou@sfc.keio.ac.jp)
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University
   252-8520 Japan

History

   2012 - Written by Hidetoshi Itaya

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scripts.

Comments

   None.

