                                     gcai
Function

   Calculate codon adaptation index (CAI) for each gene

Description

   This program calculates codon adaptation index (CAI) for each gene,
   and outputs CSV file.

   This program downloads the result file to the working directory.
   The downloaded file is named "gcai.csv".

   G-language SOAP service is provided by the
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University.
   The original web service is located at the following URL:

   http://www.g-language.org/wiki/soap

   WSDL(RPC/Encoded) file is located at:

   http://soap.g-language.org/g-language.wsdl

   Documentation on G-language Genome Analysis Environment methods are
   provided at the Document Center

   http://ws.g-language.org/gdoc/

Usage

   Here is a sample session with gcai

% gcai nucleotideSample.fna 
Calculate codon adaptation index for each gene
Output filename [gcai.csv]: 
Retrieval successful

Command line argumants

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers:
  [-seqall]            seqall     Nucleotide sequence(s) filename and optional
                                  format, or reference (input USA)

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers:
   -translate          boolean    [0] Include when translating using standard
                                  codon table
   -wabsent            string     [-] W value of codons absent from a
                                  reference set '-' when excludes such codons
                                  from the calculation (Any string)

Input file format

   gcai reads genome sequence as input.

Ouptput file format

   The output from gcai is to CSV file.

Data files

   None.

Notes

   None.

Refrences

   Arakawa, K., Mori, K., Ikeda, K., Matsuzaki, T., Konayashi, Y., and
      Tomita, M. (2003) G-language Genome Analysis Environment: A Workbench
      for Nucleotide Sequence Data Mining, Bioinformatics, 19, 305-306.

   Arakawa, K. and Tomita, M. (2006) G-language System as a Platfor for
      large-scale analysis of high-throughput omics data, J. Pest Sci.,
      31, 7.                     

   Arakawa, K., Kido, N., Oshita, K., Tomita, M. (2010) G-language Genome
      Analysis Environment with REST and SOAP Wev Service Interfaces,
      Nucleic Acids Res., 38, W700-W705.

Warnings

   None.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with a status of 0.

Known bugs

   None.

See also

   gbui  - Calculates base usage indices for protein-coding sequences
   gcbi  - Calculates the codon bias index (CBI)
   gicdi - Calculates the intrinsic codon deviation index (ICDI)
   gphx  - Identify predicted highly expressed (PHX) genes

Author(s)

   Hidetoshi Itaya (celery@g-language.org)
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University
   252-8520 Japan

   Kazuharu Arakawa (gaou@sfc.keio.ac.jp)

History

   2012 - Written by Hidetoshi Itaya

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scrips.

Comments

   None.

