                                gcircular_map
Function

   Draws circular map of the genome 

Description

   This method creates a circular map of the genome using SVG,
   suitable for plasmids and circular bacterial chromosomes.

   From the outer ring inwards, genes on direct strand (pink), 
   genes on complementary strand (yellow), tRNAs (green arrows), 
   rRNAs (pink or orange stripes depending on the strand), 
   GC content (brown lines), GC skew (yellow lines). Replication 
   origin and terminus predicted from the GC skew shift points 
   are also labeled. 

   Generated SVG is very large (8000x8000 pixels).

  
   G-language SOAP service is provided by the
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University.
   The original web service is located at the following URL:

   http://www.g-language.org/wiki/soap

   WSDL(RPC/Encoded) file is located at:

   http://soap.g-language.org/g-language.wsdl

   Documentation on G-language Genome Analysis Environment methods are
   provided at the Document Center

   http://ws.g-language.org/gdoc/

Usage

   Here is a sample session with gcircular_map

% gcircular_map NC_000913.gbk
Draws circular map of the genome 
NC_000908
Retrieval Successful

Command line arguments

Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers:
  [-sequence]          seqall     Nucleotide sequence(s) filename and optional
                                  format, or reference (input USA)

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers:
   -accid              string     Include to use sequence accession ID as
                                  query (Any string)

   General qualifiers:
   -help               boolean    Report command line options and exit. More
                                  information on associated and general
                                  qualifiers can be found with -help -verbose


Input file format

   gcircular_map reads nucleotide sequences.

Output file format

   The output from gcircular_map is to SVG format.

Data files

   None.

Notes

   None.

References

   Arakawa, K., Mori, K., Ikeda, K., Matsuzaki, T., Konayashi, Y., and
      Tomita, M. (2003) G-language Genome Analysis Environment: A Workbench
      for Nucleotide Sequence Data Mining, Bioinformatics, 19, 305-306.

   Arakawa, K. and Tomita, M. (2006) G-language System as a Platfor for
      large-scale analysis of high-throughput omics data, J. Pest Sci.,
      31, 7.

   Arakawa, K., Kido, N., Oshita, K., Tomita, M. (2010) G-language Genome
      Analysis Environment with REST and SOAP Wev Service Interfaces,
      Nucleic Acids Res., 38, W700-W705.

Warnings

   May return 502 status code for large scale genomes.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with a status of 0.

Known bugs

   None.

See also



Author(s)

   Hidetoshi Itaya (celery@g-language.org)
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University
   252-8520 Japan

   Kazuharu Arakawa (gaou@sfc.keio.ac.jp)

History

   2012 - Written by Hidetoshi Itaya

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scripts.

Comments

   None.

