                                 gfindoriter
Function

   Predict the replication origin and terminus in bacterial genomes

Description

   Predicts the replicational origin and terminus in circular bacterial genomes,
   by taking the vertices of cumulative skew graphs (GC, keto, or purine). See
   (Frank and Lobry, 2000) for the basic idea behind this algorithm
   (but also note that this algorithm is different from that of Oriloc, which
   uses GC3 of genes). 

   Terminus of replication can be more accurate by using noise-reduction 
   filtering using Fourier spectrum of the GC skew. This low-pass filtering
   can be applied using -filter option. See (Arakawa et al., 2007) for details.

   G-language SOAP service is provided by the
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University.
   The original web service is located at the following URL:

   http://www.g-language.org/wiki/soap

   WSDL(RPC/Encoded) file is located at:

   http://soap.g-language.org/g-language.wsdl

   Documentation on G-language Genome Analysis Environment methods are
   provided at the Document Center

   http://ws.g-language.org/gdoc/

Usage

   Here is a sample session with gfindoriter

% gfindoriter 
Predict the replication origin and terminus in bacterial genomes
Input nucleotide sequence: nucleotideSample.fna
origin	terminus
3768	65288
 
Command line argumants

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers:
  [-sequence]          sequence   Nucleotide sequence filename and optional
                                  format, or reference (input USA)

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers:
   -window             integer    [4096] Number of windows to use for Fat
                                  Fourier Transform. Only active when -filter
                                  option is specified. Value must be the power
                                  of two (Any integer value)
   -purine             boolean    [0] Use purine skew for calculation
   -keto               boolean    [0] Use keto skew for calculation
   -filt               integer    [0] Lowpass filter strength in percent.
                                  Typically 95 or 99 works best (Any integer
                                  value)

Input file format

   gfindoriter reads genome sequence.

Ouptput file format

   The output from gfindoriter is to standard output.

Data files

   None.

Notes

   None.

Refrences

   Frank AC, Lobry JR (2000) "Oriloc: prediction of replication boundaries
      in unannotated  bacterial chromosomes", Bioinformatics, 16:566-567.

   Arakawa, K., Mori, K., Ikeda, K., Matsuzaki, T., Konayashi, Y., and
      Tomita, M. (2003) G-language Genome Analysis Environment: A Workbench
      for Nucleotide Sequence Data Mining, Bioinformatics, 19, 305-306.

   Arakawa, K. and Tomita, M. (2006) G-language System as a Platfor for
      large-scale analysis of high-throughput omics data, J. Pest Sci.,
      31, 7.                     

   Arakawa K, Saito R, Tomita M (2007) "Noise-reduction filtering for
      accurate detection of replication termini in bacterial genomes",
      FEBS Letters, 581(2):253-258.

   Arakawa, K., Kido, N., Oshita, K., Tomita, M. (2010) G-language Genome
      Analysis Environment with REST and SOAP Wev Service Interfaces,
      Nucleic Acids Res., 38, W700-W705.

Warnings

   None.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with a status of 0.

Known bugs

   None.

See also

   ggcsi        - GC Skew Index: an index for strand-specific mutational bias
   ggcskew      - Calculate the GC skew of the given genome
   ggcwin       - Calculate the GC content along the given genome
   ggeneskew    - Calculate the gene strand bias of the given genome
   ggenomicskew - Calculate the GC skew in different regions of the given
                  genome
   gqueryarm    - Get the replication arm name (left or right) from the given
                  position
   gquerystrand - Get the strand name (leading or lagging) from the given
                  position
   greporiter   - Get the positions of replication origin and terminus


Author(s)

   Hidetoshi Itaya (celery@g-language.org)
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University
   252-8520 Japan

   Kazuharu Arakawa (gaou@sfc.keio.ac.jp)

History

   2012 - Written by Hidetoshi Itaya

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scrips.

Comments

   None.

