                                      gfop
Function

   Calculate the frequency of optimal codons (Fop)

Description

   This program calculates the frequency of optimal codons (Fop).
  
   G-language SOAP service is provided by the
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University.
   The original web service is located at the following URL:

   http://www.g-language.org/wiki/soap

   WSDL(RPC/Encoded) file is located at:

   http://soap.g-language.org/g-language.wsdl

   Documentation on G-language Genome Analysis Environment methods are
   provided at the Document Center

   http://ws.g-language.org/gdoc/

Usage

   Here is a sample session with gfop

   The database definitions for following commands are available at
   http://soap.g-language.org/kbws/embossrc

% gfop refseqn:NC_000913
Calculate the frequency of optimal codons (Fop)
Output filename [gfop.nc_000913.csv]:

Command line arguments

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers:
  [-sequence]          seqall     Nucleotide sequence(s) filename and optional
                                  format, or reference (input USA)
   -outfile            outfile    [gfop.$(sequence.name).csv] Output file name

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers:
   -translate          boolean    [0] Include when translates using standard
                                  codon table
   -accid              string     Include to use sequence accession ID as
                                  query (Any string)

   General qualifiers:
   -help               boolean    Report command line options and exit. More
                                  information on associated and general
                                  qualifiers can be found with -help -verbose

Input file format

   gfop reads nucleotide sequences.

Output file format

   The output from gfop is to a raw CSV file.

Data files

   None.

Notes

   None.

References

   Ikemura (1981) J.Mol.Biol. 151:389-409.

   Ikemura (1985) Mol.Biol.Evol. 2(1):13-34.

   Arakawa, K., Mori, K., Ikeda, K., Matsuzaki, T., Konayashi, Y., and
      Tomita, M. (2003) G-language Genome Analysis Environment: A Workbench
      for Nucleotide Sequence Data Mining, Bioinformatics, 19, 305-306.

   Arakawa, K. and Tomita, M. (2006) G-language System as a Platform for
      large-scale analysis of high-throughput omics data, J. Pest Sci.,
      31, 7.

   Arakawa, K., Kido, N., Oshita, K., Tomita, M. (2010) G-language Genome
      Analysis Environment with REST and SOAP Web Service Interfaces,
      Nucleic Acids Res., 38, W700-W705.

Warnings

   This tool may give a warning on feature output when installed on
   EMBOSS-6.5.7, but we have no known errors in analysis.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with a status of 0.

Known bugs

   None.

See also

   genc     Calculate the effective number of codons (Nc)
   gew      Calculate a measure of synonymous codon usage evenness (Ew)
   gscs          Calculates the scaled chi-square
   gw_value Calculate the 'relative adaptiveness of each codon' (W)

Author(s)

   Hidetoshi Itaya (celery@g-language.org)
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University
   252-8520 Japan

   Kazuharu Arakawa (gaou@sfc.keio.ac.jp)
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University
   252-8520 Japan

History

   2012 - Written by Hidetoshi Itaya

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scripts.

Comments

   None.

