                                    ggcsi
Function

GC Skew Index: an index for strand-specific mutational bias

Description

   This program calculates the GC Skew Index (GCSI) of the given circular
   bacterial genome. GCSI quantifies the degree of GC Skew. In other words,
   this index represents the degree of strand-specific mutational bias in 
   bacterial genomes, caused by replicational selection. 

   GCSI is calculated by the following formula:
       GCSI = sqrt((SA/6000) * (dist/600))
   where SA is the spectral amplitude of Fourier power spectrum at 1Hz,
   and dist is the normalized Euclidean distance between the vertices of 
   cumulative GC skew.

   GCSI ranges from 0 (no observable skew) to 1 (strong skew), and Archaeal
   genomes that have multiple replication origins and therefore have no
   observable skew mostly have GCSI below 0.05. Escherichia coli genome has
   values around 0.10.

   Version 1 of GCSI required fixed number of windows (4096), but the new GCSI
   version 2 (also known as generalized GCSI: gGCSI) is invariant of the
   number the geometric mean of gGCSI) of SR (spectral ratio, the
   signal-to-noise ratio of 1Hz power spectrum) and dist. 

   G-language SOAP service is provided by the
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University.
   The original web service is located at the following URL:

   http://www.g-language.org/wiki/soap

   WSDL(RPC/Encoded) file is located at:

   http://soap.g-language.org/g-language.wsdl

   Documentation on G-language Genome Analysis Environment methods are
   provided at the Document Center

   http://ws.g-language.org/gdoc/

Usage

   Here is a sample session with ggcsi

% ggcsi 
GC Skew Index: an index for strand-specefic mutational bias
Input nucleotide sequence: input.fna
GCSI		SA		Dist
0.029426	19.060829	163.543442

Command line argumants

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers:
  [-sequence]          sequence   Nucleotide sequence filename and optional
                                  format, or reference (input USA)

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers:
   -v                  integer    [2] Version of GCSI. Generalized GCSI is
                                  selected by default (Any integer value)
   -window             integer    [4096] Number of windows. Must be a power of
                                  2 (Any integer value)
   -purine             boolean    [0] Use purine skew for calculation
   -keto               boolean    [0] Use keto skew for calculation
   -at                 boolean    [0] Use AT skew for calculation
   -p                  boolean    [0] Calculate p-value when GCSI version 2 is
                                  selected

   General qualifiers:
   -help               boolean    Report command line options and exit. More
                                  information on associated and general
                                  qualifiers can be found with -help -verbose


Input file format

   ggcsi reads genome sequence.

Ouptput file format

   The output from ggcsi is to standard output.

Data files

   None.

Notes

   None.

Refrences

   Arakawa, K., Mori, K., Ikeda, K., Matsuzaki, T., Konayashi, Y., and
      Tomita, M. (2003) G-language Genome Analysis Environment: A Workbench
      for Nucleotide Sequence Data Mining, Bioinformatics, 19, 305-306.

   Arakawa, K. and Tomita, M. (2006) G-language System as a Platfor for
      large-scale analysis of high-throughput omics data, J. Pest Sci.,
      31, 7.                     

   Arakawa K, Tomita M (2007) "The GC skew index: a measure of genomic
      compositional asymmetry and the degree of replicational selection",
      Evolutionary Bioinformatics, 3:145-154.

   Arakawa, K., Kido, N., Oshita, K., Tomita, M. (2010) G-language Genome
      Analysis Environment with REST and SOAP Wev Service Interfaces,
      Nucleic Acids Res., 38, W700-W705.

Warnings

   None.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with a status of 0.

Known bugs

   None.

See also

   gfindoriter  - Predict the replication origin and terminus in bacterial
                  genomes
   ggcskew      - Calculate the GC skew of the given genome
   ggcwin       - Calculate the GC content along the given genome
   ggeneskew    - Calculate the gene strand bias of the given genome
   ggenomicskew - Calculate the GC skew in different regions of the given
                  genome
   gqueryarm    - Get the replication arm name (left or right) from the given
                   position
   gquerystrand - Get the strand name (leading or lagging) from the given
                  position
   greporiter   - Get the positions of replication origin and terminus

Author(s)

   Hidetoshi Itaya (celery@g-language.org)
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University
   252-8520 Japan

   Kazuharu Arakawa (gaou@sfc.keio.ac.jp)

History

   2012 - Written by Hidetoshi Itaya

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scrips.

Comments

   None.

