                                    ggcwin
Function

   Calculate the GC content along the given genome

Description

   This program calculates and graphs the GC content.

   This program downloads the result file to the working directory.
   The downloaded file is named "ggcwin.png" or "ggcwin.csv"
   according to the -output option.

   G-language SOAP service is provided by the
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University.
   The original web service is located at the following URL:

   http://www.g-language.org/wiki/soap

   WSDL(RPC/Encoded) file is located at:

   http://soap.g-language.org/g-language.wsdl

   Documentation on G-language Genome Analysis Environment methods are
   provided at the Document Center

   http://ws.g-language.org/gdoc/

Usage

   Here is a sample session with ggcwin

% ggcwin nucleotideSample.fna 
Calculates the GC content along the given genome
Output filename [ggcwin.png(csv)]: 
Retrieval successful

Command line argumants

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers:
  [-sequence]          sequence   Nucleotide sequence filename and optional
                                  format, or reference (input USA)

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers:
   -window             integer    [10000] Window size to observe (Any integer
                                  value)
   -at                 boolean    [0] Include for observing AT skew instead of
                                  GC skew
   -purine             boolean    [0] Include for observing purine (AG/TC)
                                  skew
   -keto               boolean    Include for observing keto (TG/AC) skew
                                  default: "0
   -output             string     [g] Input 'g' for graph output, 'f' for CSV
                                  file output (Any string)

Input file format

   ggcwin reads genome sequence.

Ouptput file format

   The output from ggcwin is to PNG data or CSV format.

Data files

   None.

Notes

   None.

Refrences

   Arakawa, K., Mori, K., Ikeda, K., Matsuzaki, T., Konayashi, Y., and
      Tomita, M. (2003) G-language Genome Analysis Environment: A Workbench
      for Nucleotide Sequence Data Mining, Bioinformatics, 19, 305-306.

   Arakawa, K. and Tomita, M. (2006) G-language System as a Platfor for
      large-scale analysis of high-throughput omics data, J. Pest Sci.,
      31, 7.                     

   Arakawa, K., Kido, N., Oshita, K., Tomita, M. (2010) G-language Genome
      Analysis Environment with REST and SOAP Wev Service Interfaces,
      Nucleic Acids Res., 38, W700-W705.

Warnings

   None.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with a status of 0.

Known bugs

   None.

See also

   gfindoriter  - Predict the replication origin and terminus in bacterial
                  genomes
   ggcsi        - GC Skew Index: an index for strand-specific mutational bias
   ggcskew      - Calculate the GC skew of the given genome
   ggeneskew    - Calculate the gene strand bias of the given genome
   ggenomicskew - Calculate the GC skew in different regions of the given
                  genome
   gqueryarm    - Get the replication arm name (left or right) from the given
                  position
   gquerystrand - Get the strand name (leading or lagging) from the given
                  position
   greporiter   - Get the positions of replication origin and terminus

Author(s)

   Hidetoshi Itaya (celery@g-language.org)
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University
   252-8520 Japan

   Kazuharu Arakawa (gaou@sfc.keio.ac.jp)

History

   2012 - Written by Hidetoshi Itaya

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scrips.

Comments

   None.

