                                 ggenomicskew
Function

   Calculate the GC skew in different regions of the given genome

Description

   This program graphs the GC skew for the whole genome, coding regions,
   intergenic regions, and the third codon.

   This program downloads the result file to the working directory.
   The downloaded file is named "ggenomicskew.png" or "ggenomicskew.csv"
   according to the -output option.

   G-language SOAP service is provided by the
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University.
   The original web service is located at the following URL:

   http://www.g-language.org/wiki/soap

   WSDL(RPC/Encoded) file is located at:

   http://soap.g-language.org/g-language.wsdl

   Documentation on G-language Genome Analysis Environment methods are
   provided at the Document Center

   http://ws.g-language.org/gdoc/

Usage

   Here is a sample session with ggenomicskew

% ggenomicskew 
Calculates the GC skew in different regions of the given genome
Input nucleotide sequence: refseqn:NC_000908
Retrieving file from:
http://soap.g-language.org/WS/result.cgi?jobid=13314898483392
to ./ggenomicskew.png
Retrieval successful

Command line argumants

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers:
  [-sequence]          sequence   Nucleotide sequence filename and optional
                                  format, or reference (input USA)

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers:
   -divide             integer    [250] Window to divide into (Any integer
                                  value)
   -at                 boolean    [0] Input 1 when observing AT skew instead
                                  of GC skew
   -output             string     [g] Input 'g' for graph output, 'f' for CSV
                                  file output (Any string)

Input file format

   ggenomicskew reads genome sequence as input.

Ouptput file format

   The output from ggenomicskew is to PNG data or CSV format.

Data files

   None.

Notes

   None.

Refrences

   Arakawa, K., Mori, K., Ikeda, K., Matsuzaki, T., Konayashi, Y., and
      Tomita, M. (2003) G-language Genome Analysis Environment: A Workbench
      for Nucleotide Sequence Data Mining, Bioinformatics, 19, 305-306.

   Arakawa, K. and Tomita, M. (2006) G-language System as a Platfor for
      large-scale analysis of high-throughput omics data, J. Pest Sci.,
      31, 7.                     

   Arakawa, K., Kido, N., Oshita, K., Tomita, M. (2010) G-language Genome
      Analysis Environment with REST and SOAP Wev Service Interfaces,
      Nucleic Acids Res., 38, W700-W705.

Warnings

   None.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with a status of 0.

Known bugs

   None.

See also

   gfindoriter  - Predict the replication origin and terminus in bacterial
                  genomes
   ggcsi        - GC Skew Index: an index for strand-specific mutational bias
   ggcskew      - Calculate the GC skew of the given genome
   ggcwin       - Calculate the GC content along the given genome
   ggeneskew    - Calculate the gene strand bias of the given genome
   gqueryarm    - Get the replication arm name (left or right) from the given
                  position
   gquerystrand - Get the strand name (leading or lagging) from the given
                  position
   greporiter   - Get the positions of replication origin and terminus

Author(s)

   Hidetoshi Itaya (celery@g-language.org)
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University
   252-8520 Japan

   Kazuharu Arakawa (gaou@sfc.keio.ac.jp)

History

   2012 - Written by Hidetoshi Itaya

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scrips.

Comments

   None.

