                                   gquerystrand
Function

   Get the strand name (leading or lagging) from the given position

Description

   Given a position and strand information (direct or complement), 
   returns whether the specified position is in the leading or lagging strand.

   G-language SOAP service is provided by the
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University.
   The original web service is located at the following URL:

   http://www.g-language.org/wiki/soap

   WSDL(RPC/Encoded) file is located at:

   http://soap.g-language.org/g-language.wsdl

   Documentation on G-language Genome Analysis Environment methods are
   provided at the Document Center

   http://ws.g-language.org/gdoc/

Usage

   Here is a sample session with gquerystrand

% gquerystrand 
Get the strand name (leading or lagging) from the given position
Input nucleotide sequence: nucleotideSample.fna
Position to query: 1234
leading

Command line argumants

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers:
  [-sequence]          sequence   Nucleotide sequence filename and optional
                                  format, or reference (input USA)
  [-position]          string     Position to query (Any string)

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers:
   -direction          string     [direct] Strand of the querying position
                                  either 'direct' or 'complement' (Any string)

Input file format

   gquerystrand reads a genome sequence as input.

Ouptput file format

   The output from gquerystrand is to standard output.

Data files

   None.

Notes

   None.

Refrences

   Arakawa, K., Mori, K., Ikeda, K., Matsuzaki, T., Konayashi, Y., and
      Tomita, M. (2003) G-language Genome Analysis Environment: A Workbench
      for Nucleotide Sequence Data Mining, Bioinformatics, 19, 305-306.

   Arakawa, K. and Tomita, M. (2006) G-language System as a Platfor for
      large-scale analysis of high-throughput omics data, J. Pest Sci.,
      31, 7.                     

   Arakawa, K., Kido, N., Oshita, K., Tomita, M. (2010) G-language Genome
      Analysis Environment with REST and SOAP Wev Service Interfaces,
      Nucleic Acids Res., 38, W700-W705.

Warnings

   None.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with a status of 0.

Known bugs

   None.

See also

   gfindoriter  - Predict the replication origin and terminus in bacterial
                  genomes
   ggcsi        - GC Skew Index: an index for strand-specific mutational bias
   ggcskew      - Calculate the GC skew of the given genome
   ggcwin       - Calculate the GC content along the given genome
   ggeneskew    - Calculate the gene strand bias of the given genome
   ggenomicskew - Calculate the GC skew in different regions of the given
                  genome
   gqueryarm    - Get the replication arm name (left or right) from the given
                  position
   greporiter   - Get the positions of replication origin and terminus

Author(s)

   Hidetoshi Itaya (celery@g-language.org)
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University
   252-8520 Japan

   Kazuharu Arakawa (gaou@sfc.keio.ac.jp)

History

   2012 - Written by Hidetoshi Itaya

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scrips.

Comments

   None.

