                                 greporiter
Function

   Get the positions of replication origin and terminus

Description

   This method returns the positions of replication origin and terminus
   in bacterial genomes by several means. 

   1. Use of databases
     By default, rep_ori_ter() tries to retrieve the position of replication
     origin in DoriC (Gao and Zhang, 2007) database, and the position of
     replication terminus from the supplemental data provided in
     (Kono et al., 2011).

     If the position of origin cannot be found in the database, but
     "rep_origin" feature is available, center position within this feature
     is used for origin. 

   2. Oriloc
     Using -oriloc 1 option, you can predict the replication origin and 
     terminus using the popular Oriloc program developed by Lobry et al. 
     available as part of the SeqinR package (Frank and Lobry, 2000).

   3. Use GC skew shift-point
      If the positions of origin or terminus cannot be found in the databases,
      rep_ori_ter() automatically calls find_ori_ter() method to predict the 
      positions using GC skew shift-points at one-base-pair resolution.

   G-language SOAP service is provided by the
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University.
   The original web service is located at the following URL:

   http://www.g-language.org/wiki/soap

   WSDL(RPC/Encoded) file is located at:

   http://soap.g-language.org/g-language.wsdl

   Documentation on G-language Genome Analysis Environment methods are
   provided at the Document Center

   http://ws.g-language.org/gdoc/

Usage

   Here is a sample session with greporiter

% greporiter 
Get the positions of replication origin and terminus
Input nucleotide sequence: nucleotideSample.fna
origin	terminus
3776	65296

Command line argumants

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers:
  [-sequence]          sequence   Nucleotide sequence filename and optional
                                  format, or reference (input USA)

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers:
   -oriloc             boolean    [0] Set to 1 to use Oriloc for prediction
   -gcskew             boolean    [0] Set to 1 to use GC skew shift-point for
                                  prediction
   -difthreshold       integer    [0] Distance between the GC skew shift point
                                  and predicted dif site expressed as the
                                  precentage of genome size, used as a
                                  threshold to retrieve dif sequence from the
                                  database (Any integer value)
   -dbonly             boolean    [0] Set to 1 to only use values available in
                                  databases and to suppress prediction

Input file format

   greporiter reads genome sequence as input.

Ouptput file format

   The output from greporiter is to standard output.

Data files

   None.

Notes

   None.

Refrences

   Arakawa, K., Mori, K., Ikeda, K., Matsuzaki, T., Konayashi, Y., and
      Tomita, M. (2003) G-language Genome Analysis Environment: A Workbench
      for Nucleotide Sequence Data Mining, Bioinformatics, 19, 305-306.

   Arakawa, K. and Tomita, M. (2006) G-language System as a Platfor for
      large-scale analysis of high-throughput omics data, J. Pest Sci.,
      31, 7.                     

   Arakawa, K., Kido, N., Oshita, K., Tomita, M. (2010) G-language Genome
      Analysis Environment with REST and SOAP Wev Service Interfaces,
      Nucleic Acids Res., 38, W700-W705.

Warnings

   None.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with a status of 0.

Known bugs

   None.

See also

   gfindoriter  - Predict the replication origin and terminus in bacterial
                  genomes
   ggcsi        - GC Skew Index: an index for strand-specific mutational bias
   ggcskew      - Calculate the GC skew of the given genome
   ggcwin       - Calculate the GC content along the given genome
   ggeneskew    - Calculate the gene strand bias of the given genome
   ggenomicskew - Calculate the GC skew in different regions of the given
                  genome
   gqueryarm    - Get the replication arm name (left or right) from the given
                  position
   gquerystrand - Get the strand name (leading or lagging) from the give
                   position

Author(s)

   Hidetoshi Itaya (celery@g-language.org)
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University
   252-8520 Japan

   Kazuharu Arakawa(gaou@g-language.org)

History

   2012 - Written by Hidetoshi Itaya

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scrips.

Comments

   None.

