                                    gs_value
Function

   Calculate the strength of selected codon usage bias (S)

Description

   This method calculates the strength of selected codon usage bias (S), also
   known as Sharp's S index. Using four codon pairs that are recognized by the
   same tRNA anticodon, namely, Phe(UUC and UUU), Ile(AUC and AUU), Tyr(UAC and
   UAU), and Asn(AAC and AAU), since the former in each of the pairs has
   stronger Watson-Crick pairing, selection towards the former codon can be
   observed for highly expressed genes. S index is therefore the weighted
   average of such bias, giving an over-all value for a genome, indicating its
   strength of selected codon usage bias. See Sharp et al. (2005) for details.

   Sharp originally defined 40 genes as the highly expressed gene group, with
   tufA, tsf, fusA, rplA-rplF, rplI-rplT, rpsB-rpsT. Since the identificaiton 
   of these genes is not convenient for computational automation, by default, 
   this method uses ribosomal proteins as the highly expressed gene group, 
   as used by Viera-silva and Rocha (2010).

   However, Sharp's gene group can be optionally used with -sharp option.
   With this option, all of the 40 genes must be named accordingly in the given
   genome file.

   G-language SOAP service is provided by the
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University.
   The original web service is located at the following URL:

   http://www.g-language.org/wiki/soap

   WSDL(RPC/Encoded) file is located at:

   http://soap.g-language.org/g-language.wsdl

   Documentation on G-language Genome Analysis Environment methods are
   provided at the Document Center:

   http://ws.g-language.org/gdoc/

Usage

   Here is a sample session with gs_value

   The database definitions for following commands are available at
   http://soap.g-language.org/kbws/embossrc

% gs_value -show refseqn:NC_000913
Calculate the strength of selected codon usage bias (S)
Sequence: NC_000913 S value: 1.11907731545538

Command line arguments

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers (* if not always prompted):
  [-sequence]          seqall     Nucleotide sequence(s) filename and optional
                                  format, or reference (input USA)
*  -outfile            outfile    [*.gs_value] Output file name

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers:
   -sharp              integer    [0] Set to 1 to use the 40 genes used by
                                      Sharp instead of ribosomal proteins (Any
                                      integer value)
   -accid              string     Include to use sequence accession ID as
                                  query (Any string)
   -show               toggle     [N] Include to dump result to stdout

   General qualifiers:
   -help               boolean    Report command line options and exit. More
                                  information on associated and general
                                  qualifiers can be found with -help -verbose

Input file format

   gs_value reads nucleotide sequences.

Output file format

   The output from gs_value is to a file or stdout.

Data files

   None.

Notes

   None.

References

   Sharp PM et al. (2005) "Variation in the strength of selected codon usage
      bias among bacteria", Nucleic Acids Research, 33(4):1141-1153

   Vieira-Silva S and Rocha EPC (2010) "The systemic imprint of growth and its
      uses in ecological (meta)genomics", PLoS Genetics, 6(1):e1000808

   Arakawa, K., Mori, K., Ikeda, K., Matsuzaki, T., Konayashi, Y., and
      Tomita, M. (2003) G-language Genome Analysis Environment: A Workbench
      for Nucleotide Sequence Data Mining, Bioinformatics, 19, 305-306.

   Arakawa, K. and Tomita, M. (2006) G-language System as a Platform for
      large-scale analysis of high-throughput omics data, J. Pest Sci.,
      31, 7.

   Arakawa, K., Kido, N., Oshita, K., Tomita, M. (2010) G-language Genome
      Analysis Environment with REST and SOAP Web Service Interfaces,
      Nucleic Acids Res., 38, W700-W705.

Warnings

   This tool may give a warning on feature output when installed on
   EMBOSS-6.5.7, but we have no known errors in analysis.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with a status of 0.

Known bugs

   None.

See also

   gcbi       Calculates the codon bias index (CBI)
   gdelta_enc Calculate the codon usage bias related to translation optimization              (delta ENC)
   gicdi      Calculates the intrinsic codon deviation index (ICDI)

Author(s)

   Hidetoshi Itaya (celery@g-language.org)
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University
   252-0882 Japan

   Kazuharu Arakawa (gaou@sfc.keio.ac.jp)
   Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University
   252-0882 Japan

History

   2012 - Written by Hidetoshi Itaya

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scripts.

Comments

   None.

